.\" Manpage for json2xml-go
.\" Contact mail@vinitkumar.me to correct errors or typos.
.TH JSON2XML-GO 1 "2026-01-14" "json2xml-go 1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
json2xml-go \- convert JSON data to XML format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B json2xml-go
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIinput-file\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B json2xml-go
is a command-line tool to convert JSON data to XML format. It supports reading
JSON from files, URLs, strings, or standard input, and outputs well-formed XML
with customizable formatting options.

This is a Go port of the Python json2xml library.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Input Options"
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-url " " \fIURL\fR
Read JSON from the specified URL.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-string " " \fIJSON\fR
Read JSON from the provided string.
.TP
.I input-file
Read JSON from the specified file. Use \fB\-\fR to read from standard input.

.SS "Output Options"
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Write XML output to the specified file instead of standard output.

.SS "Conversion Options"
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-wrapper " " \fINAME\fR
Set the wrapper element name. Default is "all".
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-root
Include root element. Default is true. Use \fB\-r=false\fR to disable.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pretty
Pretty print output with indentation. Default is true.
Use \fB\-p=false\fR to disable.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-type
Include type attributes on elements (e.g., type="str", type="int").
Default is true. Use \fB\-t=false\fR to disable.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-item\-wrap
Wrap list items in <item> elements. Default is true.
Use \fB\-i=false\fR to disable.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-xpath
Use XPath 3.1 json-to-xml format as specified by W3C.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cdata
Wrap string values in CDATA sections.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list\-headers
Repeat headers for each list item.

.SS "Other Options"
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES

Convert a JSON file to XML:
.PP
.nf
.RS
json2xml-go data.json
.RE
.fi

.PP
Convert with a custom wrapper element:
.PP
.nf
.RS
json2xml-go -w root data.json
.RE
.fi

.PP
Read JSON from a URL:
.PP
.nf
.RS
json2xml-go -u https://api.example.com/data.json
.RE
.fi

.PP
Read JSON from a string:
.PP
.nf
.RS
json2xml-go -s '{"name": "John", "age": 30}'
.RE
.fi

.PP
Read from standard input:
.PP
.nf
.RS
cat data.json | json2xml-go -
.RE
.fi

.PP
Output to a file:
.PP
.nf
.RS
json2xml-go -o output.xml data.json
.RE
.fi

.PP
Use XPath 3.1 format:
.PP
.nf
.RS
json2xml-go -x data.json
.RE
.fi

.PP
Disable pretty printing and type attributes:
.PP
.nf
.RS
json2xml-go -p=false -t=false data.json
.RE
.fi

.PP
Without item wrapping for lists:
.PP
.nf
.RS
json2xml-go -i=false data.json
.RE
.fi

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (invalid input, file not found, conversion error, etc.).

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT

By default, the output includes an XML declaration and type attributes:

.nf
.RS
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<all>
  <name type="str">John</name>
  <age type="int">30</age>
</all>
.RE
.fi

With \fB\-x\fR (XPath 3.1 format):

.nf
.RS
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<map xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/xpath-functions">
  <string key="name">John</string>
  <number key="age">30</number>
</map>
.RE
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jq (1),
.BR xmllint (1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/vinitkumar/json2xml-go/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Vinit Kumar <mail@vinitkumar.me>

.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT License. This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.

.SH NOTES
This is a Go port of the Python json2xml library available at:
https://github.com/vinitkumar/json2xml

For the Python version, install with: pip install json2xml
